{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.15063}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Paper 1 -  Blood and Violence: Exploring the Impact of Gore in Violent Video Games\par

\pard\nowidctlpar\ri-1158\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b0 The results suggested that blood and gore had no effect on aggression-related associations and cognitive processes.\par
The results suggest that personality may be a key factor in the expression of aggression in response to video game violence. This significant effect was also apparent when comparing all participants. Additionally, it was reported that participants reported a higher tension (emotional strain) in the no gore condition. A higher level of tension may have occurred as without blood and gore the participant may have focused more on level completion and other competitive factors.\par
Furthermore, a personality trend emerged showing that an openness personality demonstrated faster cognitive processing of aggressive words than conscientious and agreeableness personalities. \par

\pard\nowidctlpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b Paper 2 - Analyzing Sociocultural Perspectives on Violence in Digital Games \par
\b0  A one-way ANOVA of authors\rquote  attitudes toward violent digital games prior to and after April 20, 1999, as well as ANOVAs testing geographic location, newspaper, and article type, showed no significant attitudinal difference toward violent digital games before and after the Columbine incident. \par
President Clinton convened a general inquiry into the violent content of digital games, one result of which was the expanded ratings that the ESA provides for every digital game. \par
Additionally, researchers such as Anderson and Bushman (2001) frequently point to the Columbine incident as hard evidence of digital games\rquote  influence on human behavior, in one case drawing clear parallels between three school shootings of the late 1990s with the shooters\rquote  interest in \ldblquote violent video games\rdblquote  (353). \par
Marilyn Manson, 21 references in 10 articles (musical performer) \par
A specific political battle emerges from the content analysis of the articles in this study. This battle centers around the need for violent digital game legislation. There is a triangular field of tension between the NRA, the producers and defenders of digital media (such as the ESA and the Motion Picture Association of America, or MPAA), and anti-violence groups (such as the National Campaign Against Youth Violence). At stake in this battle is US public policy on digital games and guns\par
In some of the articles included in the present analysis, the NRA publicly defend their interests by citing violent digital games as the reason behind Columbine and other school shootings. Other articles point out that the NRA is attempting to deflect attention away from the tools used to commit the crimes: the guns themselves. Some article writers blame digital games and guns equally for the crimes, while others either ignore or defend digital games and subsequently blame the guns, the parents, and other possible reasons for the crimes. \par
This finding is important in part because of the rising number of school shooting victim lawsuits filed against digital game publishers and developers. In some cases, the criminals\rquote  families have even filed lawsuits against high-profile digital game companies such as Nintendo, Sega, and Sony. To date, all of these cases have been dismissed for one primary reason: a lack of evidence demonstrating a direct correlation between playing \ldblquote violent\rdblquote  digital games and committing criminal acts such as murder and manslaughter. \par
\b Paper 3 - Games That Do Not Exist: Communication Design Beyond the Current Limits\par
\b0 This debate is getting even more controversal when digital games such as the Super Columbine Massacre RPG enter the stage.\par
Can we get the degree of immersion we know from egoshooters without shooting? Can we get learning effects in a certain selected discipline without telling the players that they have to learn? Can we aim at a sense of ecological responsibility without importunacy? What about shocking effects without blood?\par
Do players identify with Samus Aran in the Metroid games series? Yes, they do. But do they also identify with the virtual hero Samus Aran, when she transforms into a morphing ball? To the author, it is difficult to imagine that someone feels like a ball.\par
\par
\b Paper 4 - Public Policy and Violence in Video Games\par
\b0  Studies have indicated that by the end of the 20th century, gamer preferences for graphically enhanced violent computer games increased significantly, with easy access for players of all ages.\par
The study of fourth graders\rquote  gaming preferences found that 59 percent of girls and 73 percent of boys preferred violent computer games [2].\par
A causal relationship between violent video games and an individual\rquote s propensity toward violence has not been scientifically determined.\par
 Over the past two decades, several local and state laws have been passed to attempt to control the sale and distribution of violent video games to minors. In 2000, the city of Indianapolis attempted to enforce an ordinance that forbade any video game operator with five or more machines to allow a minor to play without the supervision of a guardian. \par
Adults, who have easier access to restricted materials, are also vulnerable to the effects of these games.\par
\b Paper 5 - \b0 Higher Graphical Fidelity Decreases Players' Access to Aggressive Concepts in Violent Video Games\par
Several features of violent video games (hence VVGs) may cause gamers to access aggressive concepts during play. Two of these features are graphical fidelity and use of narrative. In particular, the increased graphical fidelity of modern VVGs is widely theorised to cause increased access to aggressive concepts.\par
However, despite this theoretical speculation, there is little empirical evidence of whether these formal features of VVGs actually do influence players to access aggressive concepts during play.\par
The presence of narrative content was not found to have a statistically significant effect. Under an influential (though controversial) model of VVG effects known as the General Aggression Model, increased access to aggressive concepts causally contributes to anti-social behaviour by players of VVGs. These findings suggest that even if playing modern VVGs did lead to these negative effects, they would not be influenced by the increased graphical fidelity of modern VVGs. \b\par
Paper 6 - Towards an Ethics of Video Gaming\par
 \b0 Grand Theft Auto, and similar games, might be thought of as crime simulators, in that similar to flight simulators, they allow their players to indulge in immediately non-consequential behaviour that pursued in reality can be quite dangerous. The shearing of the behaviour from its normal consequences in fact seems to be a pre-requisite for a player\rquote s ability to enjoy it: if what was fictionally occurring in the world of Grand Theft Auto was genuinely occurring, the player would not be enjoying it quite so much! \par
In their starkest form such putative consequences are illustrated by the frequent claims that video games bear causal responsibility for some recent notorious crimes. It is an often-repeated fact that Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold\f1\emdash the perpetrators of the\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 Columbine school massacre\emdash were gamers. The anti-gaming\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 attorney Jack Thompson has brought numerous (unsuccessful)\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 law suits against the games industry, charging the games with\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 responsibility for a number of \ldblquote copycat\rdblquote  murders. In particular,\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 Thompson filed suit against a number of games companies,\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 citing partial responsibility for the 14 year old Michael Carneal\rquote s\f0\lang2057  \f1\lang9 1997 killing of three students at Heath High School in Kentucky. \f0\par
\b Paper 7 - Columbine families sue computer game makers\par
\b0 Companies named include: Sony America, AOL/TimeWarner, ID Software, Atari, Sega of America, Virgin Interactive Media, Activision, Polygram Film Entertainment Distribution, New Line Cinema, GT Interactive Software and Nintendo.\par
A federal judge said he threw out the case saying computer games are not subject to product liability laws.\b\par
Paper 8 - Media looks for nonexisting link to gaming in VT massacre\par
\b0 A closer look at the VT shooter's life shows that he was an antisocial loner who wrote disturbingly violent essays in his English classes and had already made both students and faculty nervous. He had been diagnosed with depression and may have had other mental illnesses as well. To take a sick individual like this and blame video games for his behavior is completely irresponsible.\par
In the end, blaming new forms of media like video games, or even a "violent society" is pointless and wrong\f1\emdash violent deaths have actually gone down since the 1990s, despite the proliferation of video games. The place to point the blame for the Virginia Tech tragedy is squarely on the killer himself. If there is any secondary blame to go around, it might be more useful to look at how someone who was paranoid, depressed, and had violent fantasies did not receive the treatment he so desperately needed.\f0\par
\b Paper 9 - Video Games Can Kill \par
\b0 But there seems to be no question that they had an anti-Christian orientation, just like Michael Carneal in the Kentucky case. At least two of the Colorado victims were committed Christians, with one of them being asked, "Do you believe in God?" She answered yes and got killed.\par
Another largely unreported aspect of the case is the fact that the schools in Littleton, Colorado, had been the subject of controversy for years over the use of experimental education techniques. ABC News had reported back in 1990 that Columbine High School, where the shootings took place, had used "death education" on some of its students. One student told ABC, "We talked about what we wanted to look like in our casket." Another student said she tried suicide after her death class.\par
It appears that the media and the public educational system may have played big roles in the Colorado tragedy. Attorney Jack Thompson's lawsuit against Midway and other companies deals with part of the problem. The other part of the problem may have more to do with the National Education Association than the National Rifle Association.\par
In the Kentucky case, the young killer, 14-year-old Michael Carneal, had never undergone any firearms training. He learned how to shoot and kill from the video game. When he walked into the Bible study meeting at his high school with a gun, he proceeded to shoot his victims with deadly accuracy. Carneal later admitted that he was also influenced by the 1995 movie, The Basketball Diaries, which has a scene in which a young man enters his school and opens fire on his classmates and teacher. The character in the film is wearing a long black trench coat, just like the student killers in Colorado.\b\par
Paper 10\par
Paper 11\par
Paper 12\par
\par
}
 